docs: anonymous sign-ins (#21801)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/auth-anonymous.mdx

---
id: 'auth-anonymous'
title: 'Anonymous Sign-Ins'
subtitle: 'Create and use anonymous users to authenticate with Supabase'
---

Enabling anonymous sign-ins allows you to reduce the onboarding friction for your application. New users are able to try out your application before actually signing up for it. For example, you can use anonymous sign-ins to to build e-commerce websites to allow users to add items to their shopping cart without having to sign in and only prompt them to do so when they are about to checkout.

<Admonition type="note" label="Difference between an anonymous user and the anon key">

> An anonymous user is defined as a user that is created through the `signInAnonymously()` method. The anonymous user will have an `is_anonymous: true` claim in the access token JWT. Like permanent users, an anonymous user will use the `authenticated` role in your database. This is different from the `anon` key in your project, which has no user ID and uses the `anonymous` role in your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling `supabase.auth.signInAnonymously()` creates an anonymous user. It's just like a regular user, except the user can't access their account if they sign out, clear browsing data, or use another device.

Like regular users, the `authenticated` Postgres role will be used when using the Data APIs to access your project. JWTs for these users will have an `is_anonymous` claim which you can use to distinguish in RLS policies.

This is different from the `anon` API key which does not create a user and can be used to implement public access to your database as it uses the `anonymous` Postgres role.
```

</Admonition>

> To get started, [enable anonymous sign-ins](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers) for your Supabase Project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, [enable anonymous sign-ins](/dashboard/project/_/auth/providers) for your Supabase Project.

<Admonition type="caution">

Review your existing RLS policies before enabling anonymous sign-ins. Anonymous users use the `authenticated` role. To distinguish between anonymous users and permanent users, your policies need to check the `is_anonymous` field of the user's JWT.

See the [Access control section](#access-control) for more details.

</Admonition>
```

I'm assuming they can edit their RLS policies beforehand? I.e., they won't run into problems checking `auth.jwt() ->> 'is_anonymous' is false` before enabling anonymous sign-ins?

Author: yeah that's fine

> <Admonition type="note" label="Self hosting">

Reviewer: Maybe move this to CLI docs?

Reviewer 2: I vote for leaving it in here, it's also useful for local dev and a lot of people aren't aware that this is how to change configs for local. Maybe change the label to `Self hosting and local development`?

For self-hosting, you can update your project configuration using the files and environment variables provided. See the [self-hosting docs](/docs/guides/self-hosting#configuration) for more details.

</Admonition>

## Sign in anonymously

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

> Call the [`signInAnonymously()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-signinanonymously) method:

Author: decided to keep it as `signInAnonymously` for brevity

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.signInAnonymously()
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Convert the anonymous user to a permanent user

Converting an anonymous user to a permanent user requires linking an identity to the user.

### Link an Email / Phone identity

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

> You can use the [`updateUser()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-updateuser) method to link an email or phone identity to the anonymous user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [`supabase.auth.updateUser()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-updateuser) method to link an email or phone identity to the anonymous user.
```

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.updateUser({ email: 'example@email.com' })
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

### Link an OAuth identity

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="js" label="JavaScript">

You can use the [`linkIdentity()`](/docs/reference/javascript/auth-linkidentity) method to link an oauth identity to the anonymous user.

```js
const { data, error } = await supabase.auth.linkIdentity({ provider: 'google' })
```

</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Access control

> You can use row-level security (RLS) policies to differentiate between an anonymous user and a permanent user by checking for the `is_anonymous` claim in the JWT returned by `auth.jwt()`:

Reviewer 2: This might be a good place to put a callout reminding people to review their existing RLS policies before turning on anonymous sign-ups. (They can edit their policies beforehand, I'm assuming? So they won't run into issues checking `auth.jwt() ->> 'is_anonymous'` before they turn anonymous sign-ups on?)

```sql
create policy "Only permanent users can post to the news feed"
on news_feed for insert
to authenticated

> with check ( auth.jwt()->>'is_anonymous' = false );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with check ( auth.jwt()->>'is_anonymous' is false );
```

create policy "Anonymous and permanent users can view the news feed"
on news_feed for select
to authenticated
using ( true );

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> ## Conflict Resolution

Reviewer: Maybe move this section to an FAQ section at the bottom? If not, a title like is more fitting I think:

```suggestion
## Resolving identity conflicts
```

Depending on your application requirements, data conflicts can arise when an anonymous user is converted to a permanent user. For example, in the context of an e-commerce application, an anonymous user would be allowed to add items to the shopping cart without signing up / signing in. When they decide to sign-in to an existing account, you will need to decide how you want to resolve data conflicts in the shopping cart:

1. Overwrite the items in the cart with those in the existing account
2. Overwrite the items in the cart with those from the anonymous user

> 3. Merge the items in the cart together

Reviewer: Feels a bit unfinished as to how they can do this?

Author: yeah i think we can expand on this with the demo app

## Abuse prevention and rate limits

> It is strongly recommended to [enable captcha or turnstile](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth) to prevent abuse for anonymous sign-ins. There is also an IP-based rate limit for anonymous sign-ins at 30 requests per hour which can be configured in your [dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/auth/rate-limits).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is strongly recommended to [enable Captcha or Cloudflare Turnstile](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth) to prevent abuse for anonymous sign-ins. An IP-based rate limit is enforced at 30 requests per hour which can be modified in your [dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/auth/rate-limits).
```

## Automatic cleanup

> We are working on adding the ability to automatically cleanup anonymous users that were created more than 30 days ago. However, you can delete anonymous users from your project by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic clean-up of anonymous users is not currently available. Instead, you can delete anonymous users from your project by running the following SQL:
```

> Since anonymous users are stored in your database, bad actors can abuse the endpoint to increase your database size drastically. It is strongly recommended to [enable silent captcha or turnstile](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth) to prevent abuse for anonymous sign-ins. There is also an IP-based rate limit for anonymous sign-ins at 30 requests per hour which can be configured in your [dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/auth/rate-limits). You can refer to the full list of rate limits [here](/docs/guides/platform/going-into-prod#rate-limiting-resource-allocation--abuse-prevention).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since anonymous users are stored in your database, bad actors can abuse the endpoint to increase your database size drastically. It is strongly recommended to [enable silent captcha or turnstile](/docs/guides/auth/auth-captcha) to prevent abuse for anonymous sign-ins. There is also an IP-based rate limit for anonymous sign-ins at 30 requests per hour which can be configured in your [dashboard](/dashboard/project/_/auth/rate-limits). You can refer to the full list of rate limits [here](/docs/guides/platform/going-into-prod#rate-limiting-resource-allocation--abuse-prevention).
```

```sql
-- deletes anonymous users that were created more than 30 days ago

> delete from auth.users where is_anonymous is true and created_at < now() - interval '30 days';

Reviewer: Indent / multiline.

> -- deletes anonymous users that were created more than 30 days ago

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-- deletes anonymous users created more than 30 days ago
```
